>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We've talked
about the observable stream,
the only difference is in
our observable is real time.
Whereas we are catching
events from the user,
where there is some initial output that
generally is local to the application.
Well, what happens when you take and
you put your initial output, into a
database that everybody's connected with.
Well then it becomes real time.
So first thing's first,
start with a real time database, Firebase,
problem solved.
And so what you do here,
if you're going to do this, first things
first, create a Firebase account.
They have a very generous free tier,
and then you create a project.
And that's going to generate some of this
stuff down here like an API key domain.
This is actually all generated,
and I just basically copied it in.
So it gives you the key,
all these different stuff.
Take it up and put this in your
environment.ts.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
once you have this in, now.
We need to initialize our
modules, or input the, so the first
thing we need to do before anything
is we need to import the Angular
Fire Module, initialize the app.
And so what this does, this has to exist
for every single Angular Fire app,
is we're initializing the app and
passing in our config.
What that does is it actually
connects us to our remote Firebase.
I'm also using the Angular Fire
database module, so
if you just want to do the real
time stuff then you can do this.
But Qngular actually has a really
nice authentication functionally, for
instance like log in with
any third party provider,
like a social provider or email,
and password different things.
You can also do authorization as well,
and pull that in, but in our case,
we just care about the real time database.
So two modules here,
then we need to consume it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So in our notification
service,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What we are doing is
essentially creating a reference
to our remote endpoint.
So I think I actually
stepped through this,
how far do I go?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Actually, so
here's the entire code that I'm using, but
the first thing we need to
do is consume the data.
And this happens in two parts,
or a couple parts, actually.
First and foremost,
we define our notification string
which now instead of coming from a subject
or rather instead of the subject,
we are setting this
as FirebaseObjectObservable and
it's a Notification.
So, this is just another
service that maps our
observable to an endpoint as an object,
and then we're pointing it to
the remote endpoint, so
db.object('/notifications') and
so now we're connected, and
then from here, we subscribe to it.
So this point with these two lines
here the finding the notification and
then connecting app using db.object.
We are ready to go, we have this string.
Now we need to figure out
what we gonna do with it.
So in this case we are subscribing and
we are pointing the notification.
Whatever they come in,
it would just passing it to the rest
of the application via this.subject.net so
still even the subject there.
But I'm saying whenever something
happens on the real-time stream,
just take that and
kick it in the subject, so
we can broadcast it to
the rest of the application.
So, the new this one stream coming in, and
then we're kind of doing
a multi cast down.
Because anybody who's subscribed
to it can now listen.
The reason why I'm using dot skip one,
is because whenever it connects,
it always fires one time.
So there's always this one initial
like hey, we're connected and
that registers as a tick.
And so I'm just saying throw the first one
away, cuz that's basically your connection
event.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
you can assume it.
You simply say I want to
create a real time or
basically an observable,
that's pointed to this remote end point.
Well so we're consuming it.
How do we go the other direction?
How do we update it?
Well now, we just say this
notification stream, dot set and
we just pass it in so
whereas before we had the subject.next and
passed it in, we're now just
kind of inserting AngularFire,
or Firebase right into that spot.
We're saying it comes in,
let's update the database first,
and then it'll come back down and
we can subscribe there and
then kick it back into the observable, so
it's just this really small
insertion that we have between,
so we've just essentially introduced,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, five lines of code,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: To
modify our notification service and
now it's real time,
that's what I love about observables and
Firebase.
What do you guys think about that?
>> Speaker 2: That's awesome.
Pretty legit.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Sometimes it's
almost so easy, it's almost anticlimactic.
Like, is that for real?
>> Speaker 2: You could just make a real
time chat pretty quickly.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Very quickly.
I gave a talk last year in London,
in England about this.
It's called, Go Beast Mode,
with Real Time Observables and
Angular, and I talk about one
of the observable scripts.
So some of the slides even
you'll see in that talk.
And I build out these
really simple kind of like,
here's a ball,
here's some different things.
Like really basic like demos, and
then what I do it's like okay,
let's turn these into real things.
Where you saw where you're dragging
this thing across the screen, well,
that's like actually, where are you?
Well, I'm going to put
this pin on this map.
Or I'm drawing these lines on the screen,
well if you've ever used Map My Run or
something it's like, I ran here,
then I ran here, then I ran here, and
then I ran here.
In just a few lines of code, you can
actually split that observable stream,
put Firebase into it,
and now it's real time.
I mean, you saw it, I had five
lines of code, and I took a local,
observable stream, and
I expanded it into a real time observable
stream.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: [SOUND]
It's pretty neat technology.